                          FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE Errata

  The FreeBSD Project

   Copyright (c) 2020 The FreeBSD Documentation Project

   FreeBSD is a registered trademark of the FreeBSD Foundation.

   Intel, Celeron, Centrino, Core, EtherExpress, i386, i486, Itanium,
   Pentium, and Xeon are trademarks or registered trademarks of Intel
   Corporation or its subsidiaries in the United States and other countries.

   SPARC, SPARC64, and UltraSPARC are trademarks of SPARC International, Inc
   in the United States and other countries. SPARC International, Inc owns
   all of the SPARC trademarks and under licensing agreements allows the
   proper use of these trademarks by its members.

   Many of the designations used by manufacturers and sellers to distinguish
   their products are claimed as trademarks. Where those designations appear
   in this document, and the FreeBSD Project was aware of the trademark
   claim, the designations have been followed by the "(TM)" or the "(R)"
   symbol.

   Last modified on 2020-11-11 22:47:33 +0800 by Guangyuan Yang.
   Abstract

   This document lists errata items for FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE, containing
   significant information discovered after the release or too late in the
   release cycle to be otherwise included in the release documentation. This
   information includes security advisories, as well as news relating to the
   software or documentation that could affect its operation or usability. An
   up-to-date version of this document should always be consulted before
   installing this version of FreeBSD.

   This errata document for FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE will be maintained until the
   release of FreeBSD 12.3-RELEASE.

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

   Table of Contents

   1. Introduction

   2. Security Advisories

   3. Errata Notices

   4. Open Issues

   5. Late-Breaking News

1. Introduction

   This errata document contains "late-breaking news" about FreeBSD
   12.2-RELEASE Before installing this version, it is important to consult
   this document to learn about any post-release discoveries or problems that
   may already have been found and fixed.

   Any version of this errata document actually distributed with the release
   (for example, on a CDROM distribution) will be out of date by definition,
   but other copies are kept updated on the Internet and should be consulted
   as the "current errata" for this release. These other copies of the errata
   are located at https://www.FreeBSD.org/releases/, plus any sites which
   keep up-to-date mirrors of this location.

   Source and binary snapshots of FreeBSD 12-STABLE also contain up-to-date
   copies of this document (as of the time of the snapshot).

   For a list of all FreeBSD CERT security advisories, see
   https://www.FreeBSD.org/security/.

2. Security Advisories

             Advisory                    Date                  Topic          
   No advisories                                                              

3. Errata Notices

              Errata                     Date                  Topic          
   No notices                                                                 

4. Open Issues

     * [2020-10-27] A regression in ipfw(8) was discovered where packets are
       not properly forwarded with multiple IP addresses bound to the same
       interface.

       An Errata Notice is planned for 12.2-RELEASE.

       See PR 250434 for additional details.

     * [2020-10-27] A regression with zfs(8) send/recv was discovered where
       ZFS snapshots are not properly deleted under certain conditions.

       An Errata Notice is planned for 12.2-RELEASE.

       See PR 249438 for additional details.

     * [2020-10-27] A regression was discovered with the FreeBSD/armv7
       BEAGLEBONE images where SD card I/O takes an excessive amount of time.
       As such, there are no BEAGLEBONE images for this release.

5. Late-Breaking News

     * [2020-10-27] A very late issue was discovered with the x11/gdm package
       included on the amd64 and i386 DVD installer which causes GDM to fail
       to start properly.

       Those installing GNOME as a new installation from the DVD should
       upgrade x11/gdm from the upstream pkg(8) mirrors after installation.

       Those installing GNOME on a new installation from the upstream pkg(8)
       mirrors, or upgrading from a previous FreeBSD release should not
       experience any issues.
