                 FreeBSD 12.2-RELEASE Installation Instructions

  The FreeBSD Project

   Copyright (c) 2020 The FreeBSD Documentation Project

   FreeBSD is a registered trademark of the FreeBSD Foundation.

   Intel, Celeron, Centrino, Core, EtherExpress, i386, i486, Itanium,
   Pentium, and Xeon are trademarks or registered trademarks of Intel
   Corporation or its subsidiaries in the United States and other countries.

   SPARC, SPARC64, and UltraSPARC are trademarks of SPARC International, Inc
   in the United States and other countries. SPARC International, Inc owns
   all of the SPARC trademarks and under licensing agreements allows the
   proper use of these trademarks by its members.

   Many of the designations used by manufacturers and sellers to distinguish
   their products are claimed as trademarks. Where those designations appear
   in this document, and the FreeBSD Project was aware of the trademark
   claim, the designations have been followed by the "(TM)" or the "(R)"
   symbol.

   Last modified on 2021-01-06 00:12:48 +0000 by Guangyuan Yang.
   Abstract

   This article gives some brief instructions on installing FreeBSD
   12.2-RELEASE and upgrading the systems running earlier releases.

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

   Table of Contents

   1. Installing FreeBSD

   2. Upgrading FreeBSD

1. Installing FreeBSD

   The Installing FreeBSD chapter of the FreeBSD Handbook provides more
   in-depth information about the installation program itself, including a
   guided walk-through with screenshots.

2. Upgrading FreeBSD

   If you are upgrading from a previous release of FreeBSD, please read
   upgrading section in the Release Notes for notable incompatibilities
   carefully.

  2.1. Upgrading from Source

   The procedure for doing a source code based update is described in
   Updating FreeBSD from Source.

   For SVN use the releng/12.2 branch which will be where any upcoming
   Security Advisories or Errata Notices will be applied.

  2.2. Upgrading Using "FreeBSD Update"

   The freebsd-update(8) utility supports binary upgrades of i386 and amd64
   systems running earlier FreeBSD releases. Systems running 11.4-RELEASE or
   12.1-RELEASE can upgrade as follows:

 # freebsd-update fetch
 # freebsd-update install

   Now the freebsd-update(8) utility can fetch bits belonging to
   12.2-RELEASE. During this process freebsd-update(8) will ask for help in
   merging configuration files.

 # freebsd-update upgrade -r 12.2-RELEASE

 # freebsd-update install

   The system must now be rebooted with the newly installed kernel before the
   non-kernel components are updated.

 # shutdown -r now

   After rebooting, freebsd-update(8) needs to be run again to install the
   new userland components:

 # freebsd-update install

   At this point, users of systems being upgraded from earlier FreeBSD
   releases will be prompted by freebsd-update(8) to rebuild all third-party
   applications (e.g., ports installed from the ports tree) due to updates in
   system libraries.

   After updating installed third-party applications (and again, only if
   freebsd-update(8) printed a message indicating that this was necessary),
   run freebsd-update(8) again so that it can delete the old (no longer used)
   system libraries:

 # freebsd-update install

   Finally, reboot into 12.2-RELEASE

 # shutdown -r now
