                       FreeBSD 12.0-RELEASE Release Notes

  The FreeBSD Project

   Copyright (c) 2018 The FreeBSD Documentation Project

   FreeBSD is a registered trademark of the FreeBSD Foundation.

   IBM, AIX, OS/2, PowerPC, PS/2, S/390, and ThinkPad are trademarks of
   International Business Machines Corporation in the United States, other
   countries, or both.

   IEEE, POSIX, and 802 are registered trademarks of Institute of Electrical
   and Electronics Engineers, Inc. in the United States.

   Intel, Celeron, Centrino, Core, EtherExpress, i386, i486, Itanium,
   Pentium, and Xeon are trademarks or registered trademarks of Intel
   Corporation or its subsidiaries in the United States and other countries.

   SPARC, SPARC64, and UltraSPARC are trademarks of SPARC International, Inc
   in the United States and other countries. SPARC International, Inc owns
   all of the SPARC trademarks and under licensing agreements allows the
   proper use of these trademarks by its members.

   Many of the designations used by manufacturers and sellers to distinguish
   their products are claimed as trademarks. Where those designations appear
   in this document, and the FreeBSD Project was aware of the trademark
   claim, the designations have been followed by the "(TM)" or the "(R)"
   symbol.

   Last modified on 2018-11-06 21:55:58 +0000 by rene.
   Abstract

   The release notes for FreeBSD 12.0-RELEASE contain a summary of the
   changes made to the FreeBSD base system on the 12-STABLE development line.
   This document lists applicable security advisories that were issued since
   the last release, as well as significant changes to the FreeBSD kernel and
   userland. Some brief remarks on upgrading are also presented.

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

   Table of Contents

   1. Introduction

   2. Upgrading from Previous Releases of FreeBSD

   3. Security and Errata

   4. Userland

   5. Kernel

   6. Devices and Drivers

   7. Hardware Support

   8. Storage

   9. Boot Loader Changes

   10. Networking

   11. Ports Collection and Package Infrastructure

   12. Documentation

   13. Release Engineering and Integration

1. Introduction

   This document contains the release notes for FreeBSD 12.0-RELEASE. It
   describes recently added, changed, or deleted features of FreeBSD. It also
   provides some notes on upgrading from previous versions of FreeBSD.

   The snapshot distribution to which these release notes apply represents
   the latest point along the 12-STABLE development branch since 12-STABLE
   was created. Information regarding pre-built, binary snapshot
   distributions along this branch can be found at
   https://www.FreeBSD.org/snapshots/.

   The snapshot distribution to which these release notes apply represents a
   point along the 12-STABLE development branch between 11.2-RELEASE and the
   future 13.0-RELEASE. Information regarding pre-built, binary snapshot
   distributions along this branch can be found at
   https://www.FreeBSD.org/snapshots/.

   This distribution of FreeBSD 12.0-RELEASE is a snapshot distribution. It
   can be found at https://www.FreeBSD.org/snapshots/ or any of its mirrors.
   More information on obtaining this (or other) snapshot distributions of
   FreeBSD can be found in the "Obtaining FreeBSD" appendix to the FreeBSD
   Handbook.

   All users are encouraged to consult the release errata before installing
   FreeBSD. The errata document is updated with "late-breaking" information
   discovered late in the release cycle or after the release. Typically, it
   contains information on known bugs, security advisories, and corrections
   to documentation. An up-to-date copy of the errata for FreeBSD
   12.0-RELEASE can be found on the FreeBSD Web site.

   This document describes the most user-visible new or changed features in
   FreeBSD since 11.2-RELEASE. In general, changes described here are unique
   to the 12-STABLE branch unless specifically marked as MERGED features.

   Typical release note items document recent security advisories issued
   after 11.2-RELEASE, new drivers or hardware support, new commands or
   options, major bug fixes, or contributed software upgrades. They may also
   list changes to major ports/packages or release engineering practices.
   Clearly the release notes cannot list every single change made to FreeBSD
   between releases; this document focuses primarily on security advisories,
   user-visible changes, and major architectural improvements.

2. Upgrading from Previous Releases of FreeBSD

   Binary upgrades between RELEASE versions (and snapshots of the various
   security branches) are supported using the freebsd-update(8) utility. The
   binary upgrade procedure will update unmodified userland utilities, as
   well as unmodified GENERIC kernels distributed as a part of an official
   FreeBSD release. The freebsd-update(8) utility requires that the host
   being upgraded have Internet connectivity.

   Source-based upgrades (those based on recompiling the FreeBSD base system
   from source code) from previous versions are supported, according to the
   instructions in /usr/src/UPDATING.

  Important:

   Upgrading FreeBSD should only be attempted after backing up all data and
   configuration files.

3. Security and Errata

   This section lists the various Security Advisories and Errata Notices
   since 11.2-RELEASE.

  3.1. Security Advisories

             Advisory                    Date                  Topic          
   No advisories.                                                             

  3.2. Errata Notices

              Errata                     Date                  Topic          
   No errata notices.                                                         

4. Userland

   This section covers changes and additions to userland applications,
   contributed software, and system utilities.

  4.1. Userland Configuration Changes

   The default PAGER now defaults to less(1) for most commands.

   LDNS now enables DANE-TA, and GOST has been removed.

  4.2. Userland Application Changes

   xlint and the ability to build lint libraries or lint source code has been
   removed.

   The dd(1) utility has been updated to add the status=progress option,
   which prints the status of its operation on a single line once per second,
   similar to GNU dd(1).

   The date(1) utility has been updated to include a new flag, -I, which
   prints its output in ISO 8601 formatting.

   The bectl(8) utility has been added, providing an administrative interface
   for managing ZFS boot environments, similar to sysutils/beadm.

   The ls(1) utility has been updated to include a new --color=when flag,
   where when can be one of always, auto (default), or never.

  4.3. Contributed Software

   The xz(1) utility has been updated to version 5.2.4.

   The clang, llvm, lld, lldb, compiler-rt utilities and libc++ have been
   updated to version 6.0.1.

   The bsnmp utility has been updated to version 1.13.

   The WPA utilities have been updated to version 2.6.

   The ntpd(8) utility has been updated to allow being run as a non-root
   user.

  Note:

   Source-based upgrades from FreeBSD 11.x and earlier require the ntpd UID
   (123) and GID (123) to exist before the installworld target is run. See
   the "rebuild everything and install" section of UPDATING for the
   documented procedure for source-based upgrades for more details.

   Support for UDP-lite has been added via dtrace_udplite(4).

   The file(1) utility has been updated to version 5.34.

   The lua utility has been updated to version 5.3.5.

   Support for send, receive, and state-change providers have been added to
   dtrace_sctp(4).

   The ntpd(8) utility has been updated to version 4.2.8p12.

   OpenSSH has been updated to version 7.8p1.

   The mandoc(1) utility has been updated to version 1.14.4.

   Serf has been updated to version 1.3.9.

   OpenSSL has been updated to version 1.1.1.

   Unbound has been updated to version 1.8.1.

   The timezone database files have been updated to version 2018g.

  4.4. Installation and Configuration Tools

    

  4.5. /etc/rc.d Scripts

    

  4.6. /etc/periodic Scripts

    

  4.7. Runtime Libraries and API

   The arc4random(3) library has been updated to match the OpenBSD version
   1.35.

   The libarchive(3) library has been updated to version 3.3.3.

  4.8. ABI Compatibility

    

5. Kernel

   This section covers changes to kernel configurations, system tuning, and
   system control parameters that are not otherwise categorized.

  5.1. Kernel Bug Fixes

    

  5.2. Kernel Configuration

    

  5.3. System Tuning and Controls

    

6. Devices and Drivers

   This section covers changes and additions to devices and device drivers
   since 11.2-RELEASE.

  6.1. Device Drivers

    

  6.2. Storage Drivers

    

  6.3. Network Drivers

    

  6.4. Deprecated Drivers

   The following drivers have been deprecated in FreeBSD 12.0, and not
   present in FreeBSD 13.0: ae(4), de(4), ed(4), ep(4), ex(4), fe(4), pcn(4),
   sf(4), sn(4), tl(4), tx(4), txp(4), vx(4), wb(4), xe(4)

7. Hardware Support

   This section covers general hardware support for physical machines,
   hypervisors, and virtualization environments, as well as hardware changes
   and updates that do not otherwise fit in other sections of this document.

  7.1. Hardware Support

    

  7.2. Virtualization Support

    

  7.3. ARM Support

    

8. Storage

   This section covers changes and additions to file systems and other
   storage subsystems, both local and networked.

  8.1. General Storage

    

  8.2. Networked Storage

    

  8.3. ZFS

    

  8.4. geom(4)

    

9. Boot Loader Changes

   This section covers the boot loader, boot menu, and other boot-related
   changes.

  9.1. Boot Loader Changes

    

  9.2. Boot Menu Changes

    

10. Networking

   This section describes changes that affect networking in FreeBSD.

  10.1. Network Protocols

    

11. Ports Collection and Package Infrastructure

   This section covers changes to the FreeBSD Ports Collection, package
   infrastructure, and package maintenance and installation tools.

  11.1. Infrastructure Changes

    

  11.2. Packaging Changes

    

12. Documentation

   This section covers changes to the FreeBSD Documentation Project sources
   and toolchain.

  12.1. Documentation Source Changes

    

  12.2. Documentation Toolchain Changes

    

13. Release Engineering and Integration

   This section convers changes that are specific to the FreeBSD Release
   Engineering processes.

  13.1. Integration Changes

    
